## Getting and Cleaning Data Course Project

# CodeBook

The experiments have been carried out with a group of 30 volunteers within an age bracket of 19-48 years. Each person performed six activities (WALKING, WALKING_UPSTAIRS, WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS, SITTING, STANDING, LAYING) wearing a smartphone (Samsung Galaxy S II) on the waist. Using its embedded accelerometer and gyroscope, we captured 3-axial linear acceleration and 3-axial angular velocity at a constant rate of 50Hz. The experiments have been video-recorded to label the data manually.

The sensor signals (accelerometer and gyroscope) were pre-processed by applying noise filters and then sampled in fixed-width sliding windows of 2.56 sec and 50% overlap (128 readings/window). The sensor acceleration signal, which has gravitational and body motion components, was separated using a Butterworth low-pass filter into body acceleration and gravity. The gravitational force is assumed to have only low frequency components, therefore a filter with 0.3 Hz cutoff frequency was used.

Features are normalized and bounded within [-1,1].

Num | Name | Description
--- | ----------------- | ----------------------------------------------------
1  |  Subject | The person who performed the activity for each window sample.
2  |  Activity | Activity performed by the subject at the moment the signal was captured.
3  |  tBodyAccMeanX | Time domain signal. Mean value of the body acceleration signal component on the 'X' axis. Signals are captured at a constant rate of 50 Hz, filtered using a median filter and a 3rd order low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 20 Hz to remove noise, then  applying another low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 0.3 Hz.
4  |  tBodyAccMeanY | Time domain signal. Mean value of the body acceleration signal component on the 'Y' axis. Signals are captured at a constant rate of 50 Hz, filtered using a median filter and a 3rd order low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 20 Hz to remove noise, then  applying another low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 0.3 Hz.
5  |  tBodyAccMeanZ | Time domain signal. Mean value of the body acceleration signal component on the 'Z' axis. Signals are captured at a constant rate of 50 Hz, filtered using a median filter and a 3rd order low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 20 Hz to remove noise, then  applying another low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 0.3 Hz.
6  |  tBodyAccStdX | Time domain signal. Standard deviation for the body acceleration signal component on the 'X' axis. Signals are captured at a constant rate of 50 Hz, filtered using a median filter and a 3rd order low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 20 Hz to remove noise, then  applying another low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 0.3 Hz.
7  |  tBodyAccStdY | Time domain signal. Standard deviation for the body acceleration signal component on the 'Y' axis. Signals are captured at a constant rate of 50 Hz, filtered using a median filter and a 3rd order low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 20 Hz to remove noise, then  applying another low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 0.3 Hz.
8  |  tBodyAccStdZ | Time domain signal. Standard deviation for the body acceleration signal component on the 'Z' axis. Signals are captured at a constant rate of 50 Hz, filtered using a median filter and a 3rd order low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 20 Hz to remove noise, then  applying another low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 0.3 Hz.
9  |  tGravityAccMeanX | Time domain signal. Mean value of the gravitational acceleration signal component on the 'X' axis. Signals are captured at a constant rate of 50 Hz, filtered using a median filter and a 3rd order low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 20 Hz to remove noise, then  applying another low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 0.3 Hz.
10  |  tGravityAccMeanY | Time domain signal. Mean value of the gravitational acceleration signal component on the 'Y' axis. Signals are captured at a constant rate of 50 Hz, filtered using a median filter and a 3rd order low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 20 Hz to remove noise, then  applying another low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 0.3 Hz.
11  |  tGravityAccMeanZ | Time domain signal. Mean value of the gravitational acceleration signal component on the 'Z' axis. Signals are captured at a constant rate of 50 Hz, filtered using a median filter and a 3rd order low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 20 Hz to remove noise, then  applying another low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 0.3 Hz.
12  |  tGravityAccStdX | Time domain signal. Standard deviation for the gravitational acceleration signal component on the 'X' axis. Signals are captured at a constant rate of 50 Hz, filtered using a median filter and a 3rd order low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 20 Hz to remove noise, then  applying another low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 0.3 Hz.
13  |  tGravityAccStdY | Time domain signal. Standard deviation for the gravitational acceleration signal component on the 'Y' axis. Signals are captured at a constant rate of 50 Hz, filtered using a median filter and a 3rd order low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 20 Hz to remove noise, then  applying another low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 0.3 Hz.
14  |  tGravityAccStdZ | Time domain signal. Standard deviation for the gravitational acceleration signal component on the 'Z' axis. Signals are captured at a constant rate of 50 Hz, filtered using a median filter and a 3rd order low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 20 Hz to remove noise, then  applying another low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 0.3 Hz.
15  |  tBodyAccJerkMeanX | Time domain signal. Mean value of the Jerk signal component derived from the body linear acceleration on the 'X' axis.
16  |  tBodyAccJerkMeanY | Time domain signal. Mean value of the Jerk signal component derived from the body linear acceleration on the 'Y' axis.
17  |  tBodyAccJerkMeanZ | Time domain signal. Mean value of the Jerk signal component derived from the body linear acceleration on the 'Z' axis.
18  |  tBodyAccJerkStdX | Time domain signal. Standard deviation for the Jerk signal component derived from the body linear acceleration on the 'X' axis.
19  |  tBodyAccJerkStdY | Time domain signal. Standard deviation for the Jerk signal component derived from the body linear acceleration on the 'Y' axis.
20  |  tBodyAccJerkStdZ | Time domain signal. Standard deviation for the Jerk signal component derived from the body linear acceleration on the 'Z' axis.
21  |  tBodyGyroMeanX | Time domain signal. Mean value of the body angular velocity on the 'X' axis. Signals are captured from gyroscope at a constant rate of 50 Hz, filtered using a median filter and a 3rd order low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 20 Hz to remove noise.
22  |  tBodyGyroMeanY | Time domain signal. Mean value of the body angular velocity on the 'Y' axis. Signals are captured from gyroscope at a constant rate of 50 Hz, filtered using a median filter and a 3rd order low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 20 Hz to remove noise.
23  |  tBodyGyroMeanZ | Time domain signal. Mean value of the body angular velocity on the 'Z' axis. Signals are captured from gyroscope at a constant rate of 50 Hz, filtered using a median filter and a 3rd order low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 20 Hz to remove noise.
24  |  tBodyGyroStdX | Time domain signal. Standard deviation for the body angular velocity on the 'X' axis. Signals are captured from gyroscope at a constant rate of 50 Hz, filtered using a median filter and a 3rd order low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 20 Hz to remove noise.
25  |  tBodyGyroStdY | Time domain signal. Standard deviation for the body angular velocity on the 'Y' axis. Signals are captured from gyroscope at a constant rate of 50 Hz, filtered using a median filter and a 3rd order low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 20 Hz to remove noise.
26  |  tBodyGyroStdZ | Time domain signal. Standard deviation for the body angular velocity on the 'Z' axis. Signals are captured from gyroscope at a constant rate of 50 Hz, filtered using a median filter and a 3rd order low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 20 Hz to remove noise.
27  |  tBodyGyroJerkMeanX | Time domain signal. Mean value of the Jerk signal component derived from the angular velocity on the 'X' axis.
28  |  tBodyGyroJerkMeanY | Time domain signal. Mean value of the Jerk signal component derived from the angular velocity on the 'Y' axis.
29  |  tBodyGyroJerkMeanZ | Time domain signal. Mean value of the Jerk signal component derived from the angular velocity on the 'Z' axis.
30  |  tBodyGyroJerkStdX | Time domain signal. Standard deviation for the Jerk signal component derived from the angular velocity on the 'X' axis.
31  |  tBodyGyroJerkStdY | Time domain signal. Standard deviation for the Jerk signal component derived from the angular velocity on the 'Y' axis.
32  |  tBodyGyroJerkStdZ | Time domain signal. Standard deviation for the Jerk signal component derived from the angular velocity on the 'Z' axis.
33  |  tBodyAccMagMean | Time domain signal. Mean value of the magnitude of the body acceleration three-dimensional signals. Magnitude is calculated using the Euclidean norm.
34  |  tBodyAccMagStd | Time domain signal. Standard deviation for the magnitude of the body acceleration three-dimensional signals. Magnitude is calculated using the Euclidean norm.
35  |  tGravityAccMagMean | Time domain signal. Mean value of the magnitude of the gravitational acceleration three-dimensional signals. Magnitude is calculated using the Euclidean norm.
36  |  tGravityAccMagStd | Time domain signal. Standard deviation for the magnitude of the gravitational acceleration three-dimensional signals. Magnitude is calculated using the Euclidean norm.
37  |  tBodyAccJerkMagMean | Time domain signal. Mean value of the magnitude of the Jerk three-dimensional signals derived from the body linear acceleration. Magnitude is calculated using the Euclidean norm.
38  |  tBodyAccJerkMagStd | Time domain signal. Standard deviation for the magnitude of the Jerk three-dimensional signals derived from the body linear acceleration. Magnitude is calculated using the Euclidean norm.
39  |  tBodyGyroMagMean | Time domain signal. Mean value of the magnitude of the body angular velocity three-dimensional signals. Magnitude is calculated using the Euclidean norm.
40  |  tBodyGyroMagStd | Time domain signal. Standard deviation for the magnitude of the body angular velocity three-dimensional signals. Magnitude is calculated using the Euclidean norm.
41  |  tBodyGyroJerkMagMean | Time domain signal. Mean value of the magnitude of the Jerk three-dimensional signals derived from the body angular velocity. Magnitude is calculated using the Euclidean norm.
42  |  tBodyGyroJerkMagStd | Time domain signal. Standard deviation for the magnitude of the Jerk three-dimensional signals derived from the body angular velocity. Magnitude is calculated using the Euclidean norm.
43  |  fBodyAccMeanX | Frequency domain signal. Mean value of the body acceleration signal component on the 'X' axis with a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) applied to these signals.
44  |  fBodyAccMeanY | Frequency domain signal. Mean value of the body acceleration signal component on the 'Y' axis with a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) applied to these signals.
45  |  fBodyAccMeanZ | Frequency domain signal. Mean value of the body acceleration signal component on the 'Z' axis with a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) applied to these signals.
46  |  fBodyAccStdX | Frequency domain signal. Standard deviation for the body acceleration signal component on the 'X' axis with a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) applied to these signals.
47  |  fBodyAccStdY | Frequency domain signal. Standard deviation for the body acceleration signal component on the 'Y' axis with a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) applied to these signals.
48  |  fBodyAccStdZ | Frequency domain signal. Standard deviation for the body acceleration signal component on the 'Z' axis with a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) applied to these signals.
49  |  fBodyAccJerkMeanX | Frequency domain signal. Mean value of the Jerk signal component derived from the body linear acceleration on the 'X' axis with a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) applied to these signals.
50  |  fBodyAccJerkMeanY | Frequency domain signal. Mean value of the Jerk signal component derived from the body linear acceleration on the 'Y' axis with a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) applied to these signals.
51  |  fBodyAccJerkMeanZ | Frequency domain signal. Mean value of the Jerk signal component derived from the body linear acceleration on the 'Z' axis with a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) applied to these signals.
52  |  fBodyAccJerkStdX | Frequency domain signal. Standard deviation for the Jerk signal component derived from the body linear acceleration on the 'X' axis with a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) applied to these signals.
53  |  fBodyAccJerkStdY | Frequency domain signal. Standard deviation for the Jerk signal component derived from the body linear acceleration on the 'Y' axis with a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) applied to these signals.
54  |  fBodyAccJerkStdZ | Frequency domain signal. Standard deviation for the Jerk signal component derived from the body linear acceleration on the 'Z' axis with a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) applied to these signals.
55  |  fBodyGyroMeanX | Frequency domain signal. Mean value of the body angular velocity on the 'X' axis with a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) applied to these signals.
56  |  fBodyGyroMeanY | Frequency domain signal. Mean value of the body angular velocity on the 'Y' axis with a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) applied to these signals.
57  |  fBodyGyroMeanZ | Frequency domain signal. Mean value of the body angular velocity on the 'Z' axis with a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) applied to these signals.
58  |  fBodyGyroStdX | Frequency domain signal. Standard deviation for the body angular velocity on the 'X' axis with a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) applied to these signals.
59  |  fBodyGyroStdY | Frequency domain signal. Standard deviation for the body angular velocity on the 'Y' axis with a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) applied to these signals.
60  |  fBodyGyroStdZ | Frequency domain signal. Standard deviation for the body angular velocity on the 'Z' axis with a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) applied to these signals.
61  |  fBodyAccMagMean | Frequency domain signal. Mean value of the magnitude of the body acceleration three-dimensional signals with a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) applied to these signals. 
62  |  fBodyAccMagStd | Frequency domain signal. Standard deviation for the magnitude of the body acceleration three-dimensional signals with a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) applied to these signals. 
63  |  fBodyAccJerkMagMean | Frequency domain signal. Mean value of the magnitude of the Jerk three-dimensional signals derived from the body linear acceleration with a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) applied to these signals.
64  |  fBodyAccJerkMagStd | Frequency domain signal. Standard deviation for the magnitude of the Jerk three-dimensional signals derived from the body linear acceleration with a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) applied to these signals.
65  |  fBodyGyroMagMean | Frequency domain signal. Mean value of the magnitude of the body angular velocity three-dimensional signals with a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) applied to these signals.
66  |  fBodyGyroMagStd | Frequency domain signal. Standard deviation for the magnitude of the body angular velocity three-dimensional signals with a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) applied to these signals.
67  |  fBodyGyroJerkMagMean | Frequency domain signal. Mean value of the magnitude of the Jerk three-dimensional signals derived from the body angular velocity with a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) applied to these signals.
68  |  fBodyGyroJerkMagStd | Frequency domain signal. Standard deviation for the magnitude of the Jerk three-dimensional signals derived from the body angular velocity with a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) applied to these signals.
